# Reference

<!-- DO NOT EDIT: This document was generated by Puppet Strings -->

## Table of Contents

### Resource types

* [`hocon_setting`](#hocon_setting): The name of the HOCON file setting to be defined.  This can be a top-level setting or a setting nested within another setting.  To define a n

## Resource types

### <a name="hocon_setting"></a>`hocon_setting`

The name of the HOCON file setting to be defined.

This can be a top-level setting or a setting nested within another
setting.

To define a nested setting, give the full path to that setting
with each level separated by a `.` So, to define a setting `foosetting`
nested within a setting called `foo` contained on the top level, the
`setting` parameter would be set to `foo.foosetting`.

This parameter, along with `path`, is one of two namevars for the
`hocon_setting` type, meaning that Puppet will give an error if two
`hocon_setting` resources have the same `setting` and `path` parameters.

If no `setting` value is explicitly set, the title of the resource will
be used as the value of `setting`.

#### Properties

The following properties are available in the `hocon_setting` type.

##### `ensure`

Valid values: `present`, `absent`

The basic property that the resource should be in.

Default value: `present`

##### `type`

The type of the value passed into the `value` parameter.

This value should be a string, with valid values being `'number'`,
`'boolean'`, `'string'`, `'hash'`, `'array'`, `'array_element'`, and
`'text'`.

This parameter will not be need to be set most of the time, as the module
is generally smart enough to figure this out on its own. There are only
three cases in which this parameter is required.

The first is the case in which the `value` type is a single-element
array. In that case, the `type` parameter will need to be set to
`'array'`. So, for example, to add a single-element array, you would add
the following to your manifest:

```
hocon_setting { 'single array setting':
  ensure => present,
  path => '/tmp/foo.conf',
  setting => 'foo',
  value => [1],
  type => 'array',
}
```

If you are trying to manage single entries in an array (for example,
adding to an array from a define) you will need to set the `'type'`
parameter to `'array_element'`. For example, to add to an existing array
in the 'foo' setting, you can add the following to your manifest:

```
hocon_setting { 'add to array':
  ensure  => present,
  path    => '/tmp/foo.conf',
  setting => 'foo',
  value   => 2,
  type    => 'array_element',
}
```

Note: When adding an item via 'array_element', the array must already exist in the HOCON file.

Since this type represents a setting in a configuration file, you can
pass a string containing the exact text of the value as you want it to
appear in the file (this is useful, for example, if you want to set a
parameter to a map or an array but want comments or specific indentation
on elements in the map/array). In this case, `value` must be a string
with no leading or trailing whitespace, newlines, or comments that
contains a valid HOCON value, and the `type` parameter must be set to
`'text'`. This is an advanced use case, and will not be necessary for
most users.

So, for example, say you want to add a map with particular
indentation/comments into your configuration file at path `foo.bar`. You
could create a variable like so:

```
$map =
"{
    # This is setting a
    a : b
    # This is setting c
        c : d
  }"
```

And your configuration file looks like so

```
baz : qux
foo : {
  a : b
}
```

You could then write the following in your manifest

```
hocon_setting { 'exact text setting':
  ensure => present,
  path => '/tmp/foo.conf',
  setting => 'foo.bar',
  value => $map,
  type => 'text',
}
```

And the resulting configuration file would look like so

```
baz : qux
foo : {
  a : b
  bar : {
      # This is setting a
      a : b
      # This is setting c
          c : d
  }
}
```

Aside from these three cases, the `type` parameter does not need to be set.

##### `value`

The value of the HOCON file setting to be defined

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `hocon_setting` type.

* [`path`](#path)
* [`provider`](#provider)
* [`setting`](#setting)

##### <a name="path"></a>`path`

The HOCON file in which Puppet will ensure the specified setting.

This parameter, along with `setting`, is one of two namevars for the
`hocon_setting` type, meaning that Puppet will give an error if two
`hocon_setting` resources have the same `setting` and `path` parameters.

##### <a name="provider"></a>`provider`

The specific backend to use for this `hocon_setting` resource. You will seldom need to specify this --- Puppet will
usually discover the appropriate provider for your platform.

##### <a name="setting"></a>`setting`

The name of the HOCON file setting to be defined.

This can be a top-level setting or a setting nested within another
setting.

To define a nested setting, give the full path to that setting
with each level separated by a `.` So, to define a setting `foosetting`
nested within a setting called `foo` contained on the top level, the
`setting` parameter would be set to `foo.foosetting`.

This parameter, along with `path`, is one of two namevars for the
`hocon_setting` type, meaning that Puppet will give an error if two
`hocon_setting` resources have the same `setting` and `path` parameters.

If no `setting` value is explicitly set, the title of the resource will
be used as the value of `setting`.

